h1. Rails-Template-Recipes

This is a collection of Ruby scripts ("recipes") used to create custom application templates.

h4. Build Custom Application Templates

Application templates are often used to generate a Rails 3 "starter" or "skeleton" app that can be the basis for many projects.

Here's an example of an application template for a starter app that was assembled from these recipes:

* "rails3-mongoid-devise application template":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/blob/master/rails3-mongoid-devise-template.rb

h4. Or Use RailsWizard

"RailsWizard":http://railswizard.org/ is a website you can visit to create application templates that are used to generate a Rails 3 web application. RailsWizard might not have all the ingredients or customizations you want for your Rails app. This is a collection of extra recipes that you can add to the RailsWizard mix.

Several of the RailsWizard standard recipes are broken (for example, "jQuery":https://github.com/intridea/rails_wizard/issues#issue/27 and "Devise":https://github.com/intridea/rails_wizard/issues#issue/13 recipes). You'll find recipes here to replace or repair some of the broken RailsWizard recipes.

h4. Inspired By

This project was inspired by "fnichol/rails-template-recipes":https://github.com/fnichol/rails-template-recipes.

h2. Related Projects

Here's a tutorial that shows how an example application is built from a combination of recipes:

* "Tutorial for rails3-mongoid-devise":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-mongoid-devise/wiki/Tutorial-%28Walkthrough%29

Here are finished application templates that are assembled from recipes:

* "rails3-application-templates":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates

You can see an example application that was created from the recipes:

* "rails3-mongoid-devise":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-mongoid-devise/

h2. A Little More Explanation

Rails has a command that looks like this:

@$ rails new app_name -m /path/to/application-template.rb@

which generates a new Rails application and customizes it according to a script defined in the *application-template.rb* file.

You can create an *application-template.rb* file yourself or use one that someone else has written. Or you can visit "http://railswizard.org/":http://railswizard.org/, select various ingredients from a menu, add recipes from this repository, and programmatically generate a new application template.

h2. Recipes for General Use

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "action_mailer.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/action_mailer.rb          | Changes ActionMailer defaults             | none               | dkehoe |
| "ban_spiders.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/ban_spiders.rb           | Ban spiders from your site by changing robots.txt | none | dkehoe |
| "cleanup.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/cleanup.rb               | Remove unnecessary files, add READMEs | none | fnichol, dkehoe |
| "git.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/git.rb                    | Add a gitignore file, initialize new Git repo | Git | fnichol, dkehoe |
| "gitignore.txt":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/gitignore.txt             | The mother of all gitignore files | Git | various |
| "irb.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/irb.rb                    | Add gems for wirble, awesome_print, interactive_editor | none | fnichol |
| "rake_init_tasks.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/rake_init_tasks.rb        | Adds rake init:* tasks | ActiveRecord | fnichol |
| "rvm.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/rvm.rb                    | Sets up an rvm gemset | rvm | fnichol |
| "sample_readme.textile":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/sample_readme.textile     | Placeholder text for a README file (textile markup) | none | dkehoe |
| "sample_readme.txt":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/sample_readme.txt         | Placeholder text for a README file (ASCII) | none | dkehoe |
| "yard.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/yard.rb          | Replaces RDoc with Yard for documentation | none | rbrooker |

h2. Recipes for Testing and BDD

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "autotest.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/autotest.rb               | Adds Autotest | none | fnichol |
| "rspec.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/rspec.rb          | Replacement for the RailsWizard  RSpec recipe (adds extras) | none | rbrooker, dkehoe |
| "rspec_extras.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/rspec_extras.rb           | Changes .rspec file for customized formatting | RSpec | fnichol |
| "cucumber.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/cucumber.rb          | Replacement for the RailsWizard  Cucumber recipe (adds extras) | none | rbrooker, dkehoe |
| "cucumber_extras.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/cucumber_extras.rb        | adds extras | Cucumber | fnichol |

h2. Recipes for ActiveRecord

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "activerecord_extras.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/activerecord_extras.rb    | Adds gems for sqlite3, mysql, jruby       | ActiveRecord       | fnichol |
| "exclude_database_yaml.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/exclude_database_yaml.rb  | Exclude database.yml from version control | ActiveRecord | fnichol |

h2. Recipes for Mongoid

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "bson_ext.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/bson_ext.rb               | Add bson_ext gem for use with Mongoid | Mongoid | dkehoe |
| "mongoid_cleanup.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/mongoid_cleanup.rb        | Updates the RailsWizard Mongoid recipe for a newer Mongoid, etc.| Mongoid | dkehoe |

h2. Recipes to Fix RailsWizard 

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "devise.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/devise.rb          | Replacement for the RailsWizard standard Devise recipe | none | dkehoe |
| "jquery.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/jquery_fix.rb             | Replacement for the RailsWizard jQuery recipe | none | dkehoe |
| "jquery_fix.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/jquery_fix.rb             | Repairs an error in the RailsWizard jQuery recipe | jQuery | dkehoe |

h2. Recipes for Deployment

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "capistrano_lastmile.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/capistrano_lastmile.rb    | Adds gems for Capistrano and lastmile | none  | fnichol |
| "heroku.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/heroku.rb                 | Add a Heroku gem and ignore file | none | dkehoe |

h2. Recipes for the Application Layout

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "application_layout.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/application_layout.rb     | Adds application layout with flash messages | ERB or Haml      | dkehoe |
| "css_setup.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/css_setup.rb              | Add a stylesheet with styles for a horizontal menu and flash messages | none | dkehoe |
| "flashes_partial.erb.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/flashes_partial.erb.rb    | Add a flashes partial (for ERB) | ERB | fnichol |
| "flashes_partial.haml.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/flashes_partial.haml.rb   | Add a flashes partial (for Haml) | Haml | fnichol |

h2. Recipes for the Rails3-Mongoid-Devise Example App

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "add_user_name.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/add_user_name.rb          | adds name to User, generates Devise views | User model, Devise | dkehoe |
| "devise_navigation.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/devise_navigation.rb      | Add navigation links to the default application layout | Devise | dkehoe |
| "home_page.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/home_page.rb              | Create a home controller, route, and simple view | ERB or Haml | dkehoe |
| "home_page_users.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/home_page_users.rb        | Modify a home page to display a list of users | Home controller, User model, ERB or Haml | dkehoe |
| "seed_database.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/seed_database.rb          | Adds a db/seeds.rb file with a default user | Mongoid, User model | dkehoe |
| "users_page.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes/blob/master/users_page.rb             | Add a home page containing links to User pages | User model, ERB or Haml | dkehoe |

h2. Dependencies

Before generating a new Rails app using an application template, you will need:

* The Ruby language (version 1.8.7 or 1.9.2)
* Rails (version 3.0.4 or newer)

bq. You MUST be using Rails 3.0.4 or newer. Generating a Rails application from an "HTTPS" URL does not work in Rails 3.0.3 and earlier versions.

I recommend installing rvm, the "Ruby Version Manager":http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/, to manage multiple versions of Rails.

If you are using rvm, you can see a list of the Ruby versions currently installed:
@$ rvm list@

Check that appropriate versions of Ruby and Rails are installed in your development environment:
@$ ruby -v@
@$ rails -v@

h2. RailsWizard Usage Example

Add the following to the *Customize Template* section at "http://railswizard.org/":http://railswizard.org/:

<pre>
  git_repo = "https://github.com/fortuity/rails-template-recipes"
  @recipe_list = recipes ; def recipe_list; @recipe_list end
  def extra_recipes; @extra_recipes end
  @extra_recipes = %w{ git cleanup ban_spiders }
  @extra_recipes.each { |r| apply "#{git_repo}/raw/master/#{r}.rb" }
</pre>

Note that @extra_recipes@ is a list of filenames from this repository (without the *.rb* extension).

h2. How It Works

Rails generators can use any methods provided by the "Thor::Actions":http://rdoc.info/github/wycats/thor/master/Thor/Actions module. The flexibility of mixing "recipes" for application templates comes from use of the @apply@ method from the Thor::Actions module. Given a web address or a local filepath, the "apply method":http://rdoc.info/github/wycats/thor/master/Thor/Actions#apply-instance_method loads and executes a file within the context of the generator script.

h2. Documentation and Support

This is the only documentation.

h4. Writing Recipes

To understand the code in these templates, take a look at "Thor::Actions":http://rdoc.info/github/wycats/thor/master/Thor/Actions. Your recipes can use any methods provided by "Thor::Actions":http://rdoc.info/github/wycats/thor/master/Thor/Actions or "Rails::Generators::Actions":http://railsapi.com/doc/rails-v3.0.3/classes/Rails/Generators/Actions.html.

Please send a message (via GitHub) or a "pull request" if you've written recipes you'd like to contribute.

h4. About Rails Application Templates

"Cooking Up A Custom Rails 3 Template (11 Oct 2010) by Andrea Singh":http://blog.madebydna.com/all/code/2010/10/11/cooking-up-a-custom-rails3-template.html
"Rails Application Templates (16 Sept 2010) by Collin Schaafsma":http://quickleft.com/blog/rails-application-templates
"Application templates in Rails 3 (18 Sept 2009) by Ben Scofield":http://benscofield.com/2009/09/application-templates-in-rails-3/
"Railscasts: App Templates in Rails 2.3 (9 Feb 2009) by Ryan Bates":http://railscasts.com/episodes/148-app-templates-in-rails-2-3
"Rails templates (4 Dec 2008) by Pratik Naik":http://m.onkey.org/rails-templates

h4. Issues

Any issues? Please create an "Issue":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/issues on GitHub.

h2. Contributing

If you make improvements to these templates, please share with others.

* Fork the project on GitHub.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Commit with Git.
* Send the author a pull request.

If you start a project that is similar, please contact me and I'll add a note to the README so that others can find your work.

h2. Credits

Are the templates useful to you? Follow me on Twitter:
"http://twitter.com/yaxdotcom":http://twitter.com/yaxdotcom
and tweet some praise. I'd love to know you were helped out by what I've put together.

This project was inspired by "Fletcher Nichol's":http://silversky.ca/ "fnichol/rails-template-recipes":https://github.com/fnichol/rails-template-recipes.

Template recipes by Daniel Kehoe ("http://danielkehoe.com/":http://danielkehoe.com/) (some based on recipes by Fletcher Nichol).

Additional recipes contributed by "Ramon Brooker":http://cogniton-mind.tumblr.com/ (RSpec, Cucumber, Yard).

h2. License

h4. Public Domain Dedication

This work is a compilation and derivation from other previously released works. With the exception of various included works, which may be restricted by other licenses, the author or authors of this code dedicate any and all copyright interest in this code to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this code under copyright law.
